Hi there! Welcome to
this video where we
are going to learn
about cyberbullying.
The goal of the
presentation is to
help you to
understand what
cyberbullying is,
what motivates people
to do it, and how to
recognise it. In the
video, firstly, we
will look at what
cyberbullying is,
then we will look at
some examples of
cyberbullying and
what to do if you are
being cyberbullied.
What is cyberbullying
? Cyberbullying is
bullying that takes
place through digital
devices and online
platforms. It
involves sending,
posting or sharing
negative, harmful,
false or mean content
about someone else,
often with the intent
to embarrass, harass
or hurt them.
Common forms include
sending threatening
or insulting messages
through text, social
media or gaming
platforms. Spreading
rumours or sharing
embarrassing photos
or videos without
consent.
Impersonating someone
online to damage
their reputation.
Excluding someone
from online groups or
activities
deliberately.
Creating fake
profiles to harass
someone. Publicly
posting hurtful
comments or personal
information.
What makes
cyberbullying
particularly harmful
compared to
traditional bullying
is that it can happen
24 7, reach a wide
audience quickly, be
difficult to delete
once posted, and
sometimes allows
bullies to remain
anonymous. Victims
may feel like there's
no escape since it
follows them into
their homes and
private spaces. If
you or someone you
know is experiencing
cyberbullying, it's
important to do the
following things.
Keep a record of the
harassment, for
example, screenshots.
Block the person.
Report it to the
platform. Talk to a
trusted adult, school
counsellor or
authority figure.
Many schools and
workplaces have
specific policies
against cyberbullying
, and in severe cases
, it can have legal
consequences.